A24's logo evokes a lot of things.
Poignant family melodramas like Manari.
Gorgeous explorations of self and
sexuality like Moonlight. But also,
here's the thing. Once I see that logo
at the start of a horror film, I know
I'm in for a freaky couple of hours.
From demonic possession to violent
obsession, these are our picks for the
top 10 A24 horror films.
Founded in 2013, A24 is the indie
powerhouse of Hollywood. Not only did
they help invigorate the art house
cinema market, they made it cool. Pure
chance meant their founding coincided
with Letterbox's launch out of beta and
into the general public. In their
earliest releases, Spring Breakers and
The Bling Ring achieved that sort of
Tumblr aesthetic verality that could
launch a film into the online
stratosphere. And like it or not, A24 is
as much a lifestyle brand now as they
are a distributor. They sell a $50
candle for God's sakes, and I know
people who own it. Meanwhile, horror
holds a fascinating place in cinema as a
genre deliberately tailored to activate
our literal survival instincts. A24 has
excelled at it since basically the
beginning. Their curated catalog hits on
some of the genre's most quintessential
tropes, and they've been behind the
feature debuts of now renowned aur like
Robert Edgars and Ari Aster. Life itself
is terrifying, and while good horror
scares us, great horror reveals the
darkest truths of human nature, A24 is
in the business of truly great horror.
So, let's get into it. 10 types of scary
that A24 loves to dabble in.
Starting us off is a pretty classic
horror trope. Horrid little guy doing
horrible little things. These films are
all about stranger danger. Maybe that
eccentric weirdo is setting off alarm
bells for a reason. We're affectionately
calling this category the creep in the
corner. Unsurprisingly, a creepy guy is
scary enough that A24's got a few of
them. Heretic and Opus are both solid
examples. Starring Hugh Grant and John
Malkovich, respectively. These films
center characters so deliluded in their
arrogance that they liken their power to
God. Interestingly, their downfall comes
at the hands of young women who quickly
see past their facade. Alex Garland's
fever dream of a film Men, though way
more on the nose in its critique of
gendered violence, is an echo of this
too, though the creep in this case is
more an interconnected consciousness of
the same man that's also different men
or something. It's not super clear. The
point is, these specters of masculinity
harass Jesse Buckley as representations
of male vanity and their chauvinistic
sense of ownership over women. And that
said, our first pick of this list
doesn't feature a cunning woman making
her escape. In fact, it's quite the
opposite. Justin Long as arrogant man up
against arrogant man in Tusk.
THERE THERE MR. TUSK, THERE THERE. I
understand
it's very hard to be
The elephant of THE DEEP BLUE SEA.
STOP. STOP. STOP. STOP. WALUS HAS NEVER
CRIED.
Tusk sets the scene as Wallace, the smug
host of a podcast distastefully named
the Not Sea Party, prepares to interview
a man who inadvertently severed his own
leg. When Wallace flies out only to
discover his planned subject has
committed suicide, he exasperatedly
decides to interview an old sailor,
Howard. Wallace is dismissive of Howard,
who tells him about the bond he shared
with a walrus named Mr. Tusk. Their
interview devolves quickly after Howard
drugs him and slowly begins mutilating
him as a means of transforming him into,
you guessed it, a walrus. The whole
thing is a ridiculous, freaky,
disgusting mess of body horror and
parable. It's significant though that
Walrus is an [__] because Tusk
ultimately serves as a karmic circle
wherein a man who publicly mocks
people's misfortune then becomes the
spectacle primed for mocking. It allows
for some amount of shot and Freuda in
the mix as well. Meanwhile, Howard, our
titular creep in the corner, devalues
human life to such an extent that he
believes he can physically and
psychologically transform his victims
into animals. Trauma sits at the core of
his character along with the obsession
and sense of superiority that mix
together to become the perfect formula
for a true madman.
>> You will be a walrus or you'll be
nothing at all.
>> Next up, we're talking maneaters. If you
heard that and immediately thought of
challengers, you you get it. But this is
in fact not a category all about
sexually charged tennis trios. No, this
is all about women who look their best
covered in blood. Under the skin is one
of A24's earliest entries, playing with
this particular trope. Scarlett
Johansson stars as an alien terrorizing
men she happens to come across. In some
ways, men suits this category as much as
our previous one, as Jesse Buckley
spends much of its third act violently
resisting her attackers. But here's the
thing, we kind of tricked you with this
title. Despite the name, this isn't a
category all about a sly fem fatal using
her wilds to destroy the men around her.
Rather, it's all about the intersections
of violence, gender, and sexuality. We
could talk about the retributive and
fatal justice served up in Love Lies
Bleeding, or the manipulation that Ava
the android employs to escape into the
real world in X-Mina. And neither of
those films are technically horror, but
the horror of each of these films lies
in the insanity of being backed into a
corner. Really, this is just my excuse
to talk about Tai West's X trilogy, the
triple X trilogy, if you will. From porn
star to country Anjenu to movie star,
Mia Goth dials her particular brand of
charisma up to 11. X and Maxine position
our protagonist, Maxine Minkx, as
hungrily ambitious and willing to do
whatever it takes to figuratively and
literally survive. But it's Pearl that
subverts our expectations at every turn.
>> I know what I've done.
bad things,
terrible, awful, murderous things.
I regret them now, but I liked how they
felt. I wish I didn't, but I did.
>> Pearl sees Mia Goth not as Final Girl,
but as the crazed slasher herself,
playing with the technicolor visuals
reminiscent of optimistic 1940s cinema.
Think Wizard of Oz, but up. Ty West
cleverly unravels the backstory behind
the elderly Pearl we meet in X. Now,
don't get me wrong, Pearl is insane. Her
psychopathy lurks at the edges of every
scene until it snaps as she begins her
killing spree with the murder of a suave
projectionist that rejects her. But
Pearl's murderous rage is only
exacerbated by the social condition
she's forced to bend under. An
emotionally abusive mother belittles her
dream of stardom while she lives in the
stress of caring for her infirm father.
Her husband is off to war, leaving her
allyless, isolated, and really horny.
Sex is a biological need to be satiated
here. One more thing Pearl hungers for
but can't have. Things seem to look up
when she catches the attention of the
aforementioned projectionist. And a
dance audition comes to town that could
get her out of the life she feels
trapped in. Then her bow is driven off
by her unsettling behavior. And her
sister-in-law nabs the spot she's
auditioned for just because she's
blonde. Mia Goth plays Pearl's downward
spiral with manic perfection, famously
holding a smile through the film's end
credits for so long it becomes more of a
grimace of pain. Like Pearl herself,
this entry of the X trilogy juxtaposes a
landscape of sweetly candy colored
optimism, the rotting insides of a woman
driven mad by her inability to escape
her own circumstances.
Forgetting laughing till you cry, let's
try laughing while you scream.
Horror comedy may sound like an
oxymoron, but fear and humor overlap
pretty significantly in the way they
function for our bodies as involuntary
responses to unexpected stimuli. When
you get down to it, being afraid is kind
of funny. Take Y2K, the Kyle Mooney
directed robo slasher about machines
wreaking havoc on New Year's Day. It's
gnarly for sure, featuring some pretty
crazy deaths in one blood bath of a
party sequence. It's deeply ridiculous
in a very Mooneyesque self-aware way,
but buried in its smarmy humor and Fred
Durst cameo is definitely a comment on
the way we allow technology to control
us. Slice is another fun example. Set in
a supernatural normative world in which
ghosts are relegated to their own part
of town, this campy who done it uses the
serial murder of pizza delivery people
to ultimately criticize political
corruption and real estate zoning.
Director Helina Rain masters this combo
of scares, slapstick, and social comedy
via her very facitious take on the sexy
slasher Bodies. Bodies bodies.
>> What is your blood cluster?
Hanging out with your smartest and
funniest friend. Did you just groan?
>> Featuring some of Hollywood's hottest it
girls, a sexy as always, Lee Pace and
also Pete Davidson. Bodies, Bodies,
Bodies is about the scariest thing of
them all. Fighting with your cool,
pretty friends. When a group of partying
rich kids discover the body of one of
their friends during a blackout, the
night devolves into chaos as they try to
figure out who's offing them one by one.
A party gone wrong is bad enough, but as
the group starts to turn on each other,
old resentments rear their ugly head to
reveal just how toxic these
relationships really are. Our two final
girls survive the night and confront
each other as suspects before realizing
that the whole night was triggered by a
truly stupid misunderstanding. What
makes the entire thing work is that to
these girls, their petty squabbbling is
as high stakes as surviving the night.
Their fear is so entangled with their
frustrations with each other that the
audience truly wonders which one of them
has turned to murder. But no, the key to
survival would have been pretty simple.
Chilling out instead of freaking out.
Woven in this series of unfortunate
events are discussions of verality,
wealth, internet fame, and the desperate
defense of one's public persona. Bodies,
Bodies, Bodies is as much comedy as
horror. But what makes it memorable is
that really it's sort of sad. In a lot
of ways, the girls deaths represent
something pretty relatable. The
permanent end of friendships over
ridiculous preventable circumstances.
It may surprise you to learn that this
next set of horror movies aren't
technically horror movies at all.
Reality itself can be pretty terrifying,
and these films are high stress
reminders of how easily it can all go
wrong. The Kill Team, for instance, is
based on true events in which a US
soldier in Afghanistan watches
helplessly while his platoon and
commanding officer begin murdering
civilians. No ghosts, no masked madmen,
no demons. These are regular guys who'd
likely return to regular lives after
this disgusting rampage. The horror lies
in the simple fact of its mundanity.
Think Zone of Interest, which juxtaposes
the day-to-day life of a Nazi commander
and his family with horrific acts
committed at Awitz next door. Once you
begin to see the people as less than
human, there's really no going back from
that kind of evil. Edington 2 is eerily
reminiscent of the recent past as it
depicts a politically divided small town
that reaches a violent boiling point
during the early days of CO 19. But
let's talk about one of A24's most
famously stressful watches. The Safy
brothers uncut gems.
>> They don't keep tracking on that [__]
Who?
>> They think in game seven you're not
going to get 18 points. They don't think
you're going to get eight rebounds.
>> These guys don't know [__] about
>> What the do they do? Doesn't that make
you want to kill them? Doesn't that make
you want to say you for doubting me?
Doesn't that make you want to step on
Elton Brand's neck? Come on, KG. This is
no different than that. This is me. All
right. I'm not a [__] athlete. This
is mying way. This is how I win. A
jeweler, a gambling addict, and a
two-timer walk into a bar. Surprise,
they're all Adam Sandler as Howard
Ratner in Uncut Gyms. Howard is a
high-end jeweler at the top of his game.
But the problem is Howard also knows he
can always go higher. Thinks he can
always go higher, I guess, is the better
way to put it. A cautionary tale against
hubris. We watch as Howard makes mistake
after mistake, dealt just enough bad
luck that everything pretty quickly
spirals out of control. There's some
violence courtesy of his brother-in-law/
lones Arno and his goons. But the reason
we're considering this a horror, just
for the sake of this list, at least
isn't just those few bloody runins. See,
Uncut Gems will keep you glued to the
edge of your seat. You never know what's
going to happen next or which action is
going to lead to the worst consequences.
Like a protagonist walking alone down a
dark staircase in a haunted house, you
constantly find yourself screaming at
Howard to turn back. So maybe Hubris is
its own kind of demon starring in its
own kind of horror movie.
If you've ever had that one weird
cousin, the next set of films are
basically about that. I'm joking. Your
weird cousin is probably way worse than
this. But children have long been one of
the most fascinating figures in horror.
Simultaneously symbols of innocence and
our basist instincts. What makes kids so
scary is that they're basically a blank
slate. A child isn't born with an innate
sense of morality, and therefore, a
parent is basically charged with
ensuring they don't accidentally raise a
serial killer. That's kind of the whole
gig. Fairy tales about changelings have
been around for centuries. Creatures
steal a baby and replace it with one of
their own, parasitically feeding off
unsuspecting parents as their true child
suffers elsewhere. So, it's easy to see
what inspired A24's The Hole in the
Ground. After her young son returns from
a mysterious hole in the ground, a
mother slowly becomes convinced that
what returned wasn't her son at all.
It's an idea that's been explored a few
times alongside the postpartum delirium
that comes with new motherhood. Can a
parent truly know their child at all?
After all, humans are animals, and
what's more feral than the young? So,
what happens when that wilderness
manifests? Barry Kon gives us a pretty
good example in his turn as a troubled
teen and killing of a sacred deer. It's
exactly what you think. Just like you
killed a member of my family, now you
got to kill a member of your family to
balance things out. Understand? I can't
tell you who to kill. Of course, that's
for you to decide. But if you don't do
it, they will all get sick and die. Bob
will die. Kim will die. Your wife will
die. They will all get sick and die.
One, paralysis of the limbs. Two,
refusal of food to the point of
starvation. Three, bleeding from the
eyes. Four, death. One, two, three,
four, don't worry, you won't get sick.
You just got to stay calm, that's all.
The centerpiece of Yorgos Lanthamos's
skin crawling fable of comeuppance and
accountability. Barericion plays the
disturbingly monotone Martin who grows
obsessed with a heart surgeon Steven
played by Colin Ferrell. As Steven's
family slowly succumbs to a mysterious
paralytic illness, he grows increasingly
suspicious of Martin. His fears turn out
to be substantiated when Martin claims
that Steven is responsible for the death
of his father on the operating table and
must therefore choose a member of his
own family to die or they all will.
Killing of a sacred deer is surrealist
in its storytelling. Once Martin reveals
this curse of sorts, it doesn't take
long for the family to buy into it.
There's always the question of whether
Martin is simply deluded, but the plot
centers less on questioning the truth of
his claim and more in Steven's sheer
inability to take accountability for his
own mistakes. He blames the hospital's
anesthesiologist for Martin's father's
death, who in turn blames Steven. He's
so conflicted about who in his family
he'll kill that he watches his children
deteriorate, but never once seems to
consider himself. In one particularly
disturbing moment, Steven's wife, played
by Nicole Kidman, asks that he kill one
of their children instead of her since
they can always have more.
Meanwhile, Martin watches like a passive
observer. There's no malice in his
claim. In fact, he almost seems
apologetic as he explains to Steven the
inevitability of the situation. Present
throughout the entire film is this very
childlike idea of fairness. An eye for
an eye evoked in the matter-of-fact
monotone of a teenager with a stark and
uncomplicated view of the world.
These next films are all about one
thing, surviving the night. One
disturbing thrill ride after another,
A24's catalog gives us a gory glimpse
into what's likely the worst day of
these characters' lives. And there is
both a literal and figurative light at
the end of the tunnel. The basic rules
are this. Kill the creature, make it to
the morning. Monsters pick apart an
ensemble one by one, but they come in
many forms. In Climax, a spiked sangria
sends a dance troop on a perilous LSD
trip that leads to debauchery and death.
In The Monster, a mother and daughter
have to evade a literal, you guessed it,
monster. Pretty bold to call it the
monster, but it is a monster for sure.
But these runner-ups are nothing like
the literal Nazis terrorizing a punk
band in Green Room.
>> All right, so all set. Uh, matinea
tomorrow, doors at 1. You guys are on a
three. I tested the attic.
>> How much?
>> Uh, 350 m your tab. And um, just so you
know, it's mostly boots and braces down
there.
>> Skins. There's some at every shop.
>> What? DMS Sharp.
>> Uh, rightwing or technically ultra left,
but not affiliated.
>> Are your cousins cool? Yeah. Yeah. Uh,
don't talk politics, but stick with
Daniel.
>> After the ain't rights witness a murder
at a skin head bar, a group of neo-Nazis
holds them hostage before deciding to
kill them. Led by the cruy calculating
Darcy, played terrifically by Patrick
Stewart. The skin heads pursue the ain't
rights relentlessly. If you've seen
Green Room, you know it's gnarly. In one
infamous scene, a character has his hand
almost entirely severed, which honestly,
almost entirely severed, so much worse
than entirely severed. But the reason
Green Room gets this spot is that it
truly is a twisted Alice and Wonderland
journey through the dingy halls of a
white supremacist enclave in which our
protagonist's only options are fight or
die. Green Room is less about exploring
social ills via symbolism. Like these
are straight up actual Nazis, so no
symbolism necessary. It's more about
curating an experience of pure
adrenaline. Every violent turn within
this tunnel of terror makes the outside
world feel farther and farther away. and
you'll wonder whether the ain't rights
will ever see anything but the dark
halls of this disgusting bar ever again.
You need a strong stomach to sit through
this blood soaked odyssey.
We're calling this next category seeing
double or alternatively I think I talked
about this in therapy. This set of A24
films explores the self as the enemy.
Whether it be via doppelgangers or
wildly altered perceptions of one's
physical reality, they reveal internal
conflict through external
manifestations. A different man is a
fascinating version of this that doesn't
involve the supernatural. In it, a
disfigured man, Edward, underos a
procedure with the goal of becoming
attractive. It's a success, but he still
spirals out of control after a neighbor
writes a play based on his former face
and casts a man named Oswald who had a
similar condition. The desperation that
follows is reminiscent of a pretty
famous internet adage. You can't hate
yourself into a body you love. Edward
struggles to internally process this new
external reality. And Oswald acts as a
sort of manifestation of his own
confusion. Ari's bow is afraid for all
its absurdest surrealism examines the
psyche of a deeply anxious man while
rejecting time as a wholly linear
concept. Every version of B young to old
exists simultaneously. The film itself
may not make logical sense, but it's
revealing of the pasts that haunt our
every step in the present. But for this
pick, we're going with Jane Shonrun's
Eerie I Saw the TV glow.
>> What about you? Do you like girls?
>> I don't know.
>> Boys.
>> I
I I think that I like TV shows.
protagonist is Owen, a soft-spoken
teenager introduced to a mysterious
monster of the week TV show, The Pink
Opaque, about two girls who are
psychically linked. Maddie, the girl who
tapes the show for him to watch,
disappears after trying to get Owen to
run away with her for years. After that,
Owen lives a subdued life that never
feels like it fits. Then, Maddie
returns, revealing that she and Owen are
the girls from the pink opaque, trapped
within this alternate reality by their
nemesis, Mr. are melancholy. The taped
episodes are their memories leaking
through their suspended state. Maddie
begs Owen to bury himself alive in order
to return to his true life as Isabel.
Because the thing is, Isabelle is
suffocating to death. Dread lingers
through every frame, lending the
mundanity of suburban life a nightmarish
quality that grows sickeningly as Owen
ages. With I Saw the TV glow, Shonren
has crafted a deeply tragic trans
allegory about keeping oneself trapped
for fear of what one might reveal. The
burial seems to represent a birth,
death, rebirth sequence wherein Owen
buries his fabricated reality in order
to emerge into her true one. Throughout
the film, Owen floats half alive from
moment to moment as his other self
slowly suffocates from the weight of the
earth on top of her. Mattie's return
only strengthens the chilling feeling in
the back of Owen's head that something
isn't quite right. In the film's most
visceral scene, Owen breaks down at a
children's birthday party, screaming in
horror that he's dying and crying
desperately for his mother. It's one of
Justice Smith's best performances to
date as he plays the pain of this moment
with brutal vulnerability. Mr.
Melancholy may have been the one to trap
Owen, but it's Owen himself who decides
not to stay put. The unreality he builds
for himself is hollow and listless. But
he goes on anyway, convinced one day
that the deep sense of wrongness will go
away.
A24 is truly the place for folk horror.
Using the iconography or mythology of
European paganism, the films we're
talking about today are skin crawlingly
creepy explorations of ritual and
carnality. Like our creepy kids from
earlier, the freakiest part of these
films is the sense of wildness that
resides within them. Like a tree that
will grow through cracks of concrete,
the forces dealt with here are ancient,
uncontrollable. Robert Edgars is the
lighthouse features omens of the angry
sea as two men live alone together at
the titular lighthouse. Robert Patson as
Efim Winslow goes mad in isolation,
heranged by the gulls and disturbed by
his companion wakes odd behavior. A
writhing mermaid, distant sea creatures,
and the delirium of alcohol are spun in
gorgeous black and white to craft a grim
folk tale about the hungry sea. The
Icelandic horror Lamb is another tale of
vengeful wilderness. In it, two grieving
parents take in a sheep human hybrid to
raise as their own. Reminiscent of other
tales in which a couple is gifted a
child by divine forces like Japan's
Motaro or Disney's version of Hercules,
Lamb takes a turn after the child's
human mother kills her biological one.
An unknown creature stalks the family,
murdering the father and family dog
after revealing himself as the sire of
our aonomous lamb. It's a fable of sorts
about one's ability to tame nature for
oneself and the innate forces that will
always resist. That said, my dog is my
actual biological child. But what would
this list be without Ari's daylight
drenched horror masterpiece, Midsamar?
Wow.
Aster's follow-up to Hereditary, which
we'll get to that again, I'm sure.
Midsummer follows Dany, a traumatized
woman grieving the murder suicide of her
sister and parents. Danyy's grad student
boyfriend, Christian, reluctantly
invites Dany to what's meant to be a
veritable boy's trip to the village of
an enigmatic Swede, Pelle. Dany is
immediately disturbed by their hosts,
who kick off the Midsummer Festivals
with the ritual suicide of two elderly
villagers. Things only spiral from there
as each of Pelly's guests go
mysteriously missing. Midsomar expertly
utilizes daylight as both a means of
comfort and horror. Everything to fear
is in plain sight, but Dany has been so
relentlessly undermined by her cold
boyfriend that she never quite trusts
herself until she's driven into the open
arms of a cult. Midsummer itself has
long been part of pagan celebrations of
the summer solstice and Aster uses
Scandinavian folklore as a
representation of the unknown. What
Midsomar asks is whether decades of
harmony are worth the occasional
horrific act of evil. It's not a new
question. Ursula Kawwyn explores a
similar idea in her short story, The
Ones who walk away from Omelas, in which
a perfect utopia depends upon the
neglect of a single child. There are
those who choose to leave this idealized
society unable to abide the cruelty
required to sustain it. Dany finds
belonging at the end of the film, but at
the cost of her sanity, and we get the
sense that she won't choose to walk
away.
Unsurprisingly, religious horror has a
lot of overlap with folk horror,
particularly our pick for this spot. But
what primarily sets it apart is the use
of very specifically Christian or
biblical imagery and themes of worship,
sin, or fanaticism. Crosses, nuns, Satan
himself. Huzzah. St. Ma, for instance,
sees a devout nurse obsess over her
atheist patient. So sure is Ma in her
conviction to save a soul that she
engages in self- flagagillation in order
to feel close to God. It's a tragedy,
honestly. A lonely girl clings so
tightly to religion in its most rigid
sense that it leads her to
self-destruction. Ozgood Perkins first
feature film plays the opposite angle,
unspooling the story of a Satanist teen
in communication with a demon. Another
lonely young girl, Cat, finds solace in
an evil entity that convinces her to
kill two nuns and another student at her
Catholic boarding school. After being
caught, an exorcism forces the demon out
despite her pleas for it to stay. and a
dual timeline sees an adult cat travel
back to her old school in hopes of
reuniting with it. Both films toy with
the concept of zealatry as a response to
emotional isolation, staunch loyalty to
a force or creed in such a way that
renders the self almost inconsequential.
It's notable that the protagonists of
A24's religious horror tend to be young
women. The same goes for our number two
pick. Robert Edgars is the witch.
What does thou want?
>> What can thou give?
>> What's thou like the taste of butter,
a pretty dress?
What's thou like to live deliciously?
>> Yes.
Ana Taylor Joy plays Thomasson, the
teenage daughter of two Puritanical
English settlers living in 1630s New
England. Their family toils away at
tilling new land near the forest, happy
together, but unsure of their harvest.
The catalyst to the horrific misfortune
that befalls them is the sudden
disappearance of Thomasson's infant
brother. Her mother's resentment toward
Thompson grows, reaching feverish peak
when her oldest son, Caleb, disappears
in the woods, only to return delirious
after encountering a witch before dying
in the throws of a holy ecstasy. Well,
it turns out the family goat, Black
Phillip, is actually Satan. He exerts
his demonic influence until he finally
drives Thomasson to join a coven of
witches. What the witch illustrates
expertly is the shame foisted upon girls
just after puberty. The family assumes
something unholy about Thomasson by
virtue of a body she's grown into. Early
in the film, we see her younger brother
sneak guilty glances at her breasts.
Thomasson never notices, and her
brother's glances are portrayed as the
unfortunate circumstance of coming into
puberty while isolated from everyone but
your family. However, at the height of
their mother's frenzy, she rages at
Thomasson for the slutish looks she's
allegedly been sending her brother. That
single moment is a microcosm of what
Edgars uses this horror to explore. The
inevitability of hostility turned upon
girls as they grow into women. These
Puritan parents may love their daughter,
but she's seen as the most religiously
weak by virtue of her femininity.
Thomasson occupies an inbetween that her
parents understanding of God are unable
to reckon with. It's truly a Madonna
horror complex playing out in real time.
Black Phillip may kill her father, but
Thomasson tearfully kills her crazed
mother in self-defense as she's
viciously attacked. It's symbolic of the
restrictive, cruel social expectations
that will send young women searching for
acceptance elsewhere. One can only hope
it's not to the arms of a demon.
What's more terrifying than a family
dinner? Family can be a pretty fraught
subject generally, and what better
fodder for horror than the people to
whom you form the closest, most intense
relationships. For our final category,
we're diving into the A24 films that
tackle everything from generational
trauma to paranoid protectiveness. Loss
is a big theme here. Grieving anyone is
hard enough, but a sibling, parent, a
child. The Filipoo brothers explore the
madness of bereavement in their films
Talk to Me and Br both of which feature
characters that embark on journeys of
internal and external destruction to
reconnect with the loved one. It Comes
at Night is a parable of the paranoia
and hostility one can easily succumb to
when our families are at risk. But not
everyone has a particularly fond
relationship with all of their
relatives. The front room, for instance,
begins with a typical distaste that
comes with meeting one of your weird
in-laws. but quickly descends into
delirium, gaslighting, and distrust,
which honestly kind of sounds like
Thanksgiving. And what is a film about
family without a little generational
trauma sprinkled in? Perhaps one of the
great contemporary horror films is also
one of A24's most iconic, hereditary.
>> Okay, so fine, then say what you want to
say then.
>> Hey, Dad.
>> I don't want to say anything. I've tried
saying.
>> Okay, so try again. Release yourself.
>> Oh, release you, you mean?
>> Yeah, fine. Release me. Just say it.
JUSTING SAY IT.
>> DON'T YOU SWEAR AT ME, YOU LITTLE [__]
DON'T YOU EVER RAISE YOUR VOICE AT ME. I
AM YOUR MOTHER. Opening with the wake of
her mother and quickly hurtling into the
gruesome accidental death of her
daughter, Charlie. Annie's remaining
family suffers a series of supernatural
psychological horrors that culminate in
her son's demonic possession.
Hereditary's gore is equal parts
disgusting and spine chilling. Nearly
all of its imagery is iconic at this
point. Charlie's head severed by a light
pole. A possessed Annie severing her own
head with piano wire. Annie's husband
burning alive by their fireplace. But an
undercurrent to all of that is a story
about generational trauma. Annie reveals
early on she was estranged from her
mother until Charlie's birth, who she
allowed her mother to help raise.
Charlie comments that her grandmother
wishes she'd been a boy, which doubles
both as foreshadowing and a comment on
the gendered hierarchy often present in
tumultuous familial relationships. We
learn eventually that Annie's mother was
the leader of a coven who worships
Payman, one of the kings of hell. Ari
has explained that the true Charlie had
been displaced at birth and made a
vessel for Payman. Her death sparks his
demonic spirit to seek a male host,
resulting in the psychological torture
of Annie's son, Peter. There's so much
to unpack here that it would need its
own video, but Annie's strained
relationship with Peter is pretty
fascinating. At one point, she's
compelled by an unknown force to blurt
out that she never wanted to be Peter's
mother. Motherhood and pregnancy are
often explored in horror as fraught
mental and physical torment. The idea
that Annie's subconscious resentment of
her firstborn ultimately manifests in
Peter's possession and is compounded by
the adrenalinefueled third act in which
a possessed Annie is chasing Peter and
mutilating herself in the process.
Hereditary suggests that we carry our
family's evils with us generation by
generation. Payman's possession is
symbolic of the trauma that pursues us
until we inevitably succumb. Strip the
supernatural away and we've got a
relatable story about a troubled family.
Controlling mother begets suicidal son
and emotionally distant daughter.
Emotionally distant daughter develops
cold relationships with her own
children. What makes hereditary
brilliant? And the reason it tops our
list is because it digs into one of our
great internal fears. Our lives are
determined by the lives of the family
before us.
So, there you have it. Those are our
picks for A24's 10 best horror films.
This movie list was written by Alysa
Mora, edited by Justin Donaldson, and
produced by me, Glen Cage. I hope you've
uncovered a couple fears that you didn't
even know you had. That's what I'm here
for. I'm off to watch a movie that
doesn't fill me with a deep well of
existential dread. Maybe back rooms.
H. We'll see how that goes. Let us know
what your favorite A24 horror movies are
in the comments. Be sure to subscribe to
Cinnapix for more movie lists.